Kevin Kaspar: Okay, so the whole purpose of this
Kevin Kaspar: workshop is we? I didn't used to have this workshop for the 1st 3 programs, and then in our 4th for our 4th program, I was thinking, why do we just let the companies kind of like make the same mistakes every single time?
Kevin Kaspar: what? What is it not working?
Kevin Kaspar: Why do we let the companies make the same mistakes every single time when their predecessors have made these mistakes, and basically like you can learn from the past people and keep iterating. And we'll just keep getting better. The mentors will keep coming back more and more because they're experiencing a better mentor madness. And also, you guys will get more out of it. So
Kevin Kaspar: in the 4th program we did. And remember, you guys are number 12. So this has been a while ago. I started taking the feedback that the 1st 3 programs got and giving it at the start to the new class who hadn't gone through mentor madness yet. And it helped a ton. So the same mistakes were not made anymore. Everybody was extremely prepared. And basically, the mentors were a lot happier with the class because they weren't seeing the same mistakes again and again.
Kevin Kaspar: So ever since then, for the past 8 programs. I've been doing this workshop. And it's really important that you guys heed my warnings because the people who do have a very successful mentor madness, and the people who don't make the same mistakes that their predecessors did. And I just don't want that for you guys. So make sure that you pay attention and ask me any questions for things that may not make sense
Kevin Kaspar: cool. And then also these tips and tricks you can take with you for every mentor interaction like for the rest of your time building your startup. So it's not just for the weeks 3 and 4 of this program. It's forever after that. So I'm giving you good hygiene on how to have mentors, advisors, even board members in the future. All of this applies to that.
Kevin Kaspar: So let's start.
Kevin Kaspar: So we're going to go through beforehand first.st
Kevin Kaspar: Chloe will go through a whole session on the specifics of mentor research. But I'm going to give you like the high level here. So beforehand. So next week, you're gonna want to create a way to track mentor research and follow ups because you're gonna not only research the mentors beforehand, but you're gonna want to make sure you follow up which I'll get into. You want to track all of that. So you guys are gonna next week get a schedule, and you'll have every single mentor that you're going to meet with, right?
Kevin Kaspar: And you're gonna want to research them. But you're also gonna want to make sure that you track every single meeting you have and make sure that you're following up. So you need some sort of crm. Chloe. What is nice enough to offer to go deeply into crms during her researching one on one next week, so we'll just punt that until then. But remember that we're going to go over that
Kevin Kaspar: next.
Kevin Kaspar: Send an email to each
Kevin Kaspar: mentor introducing yourself and your business at least 24 h in advance. This is required, and the best practice is 48 h in advance.
Kevin Kaspar: That means that by next Friday you should have sent an email to the mentors you're meeting on Monday.
Kevin Kaspar: I ask the mentors in every debrief because we talk to the mentors after you guys leave the room, we talk to them on Zoom every time, and I ask them how many of the companies from that batch sent their email 24 to 48 h before, and I write it down
Kevin Kaspar: because I'm I want to be aware, and I'll actually message you if it seems like a pattern that you're not getting it to these mentors.
Kevin Kaspar: This is much more of a signal than it is for them to read it. It's not on the mentors to read your message. It's the fact that you sent it. They look. Some of them don't even have time to read it, so don't be offended if they don't read it, even though I know you'll spend a lot of time on it.
Kevin Kaspar: and I'll teach you what to put into it. But it's about the idea that you took the time to introduce yourself and send it before beforehand. So remember, the mentors may not have opened your email. You might get on call and say, did you see my email? And they'll say No, but they actually do check if you sent it like, they'll literally search and see like, Oh, did you send it this morning? When did you send it? Did you send it at all?
Kevin Kaspar: So a lot of people
Kevin Kaspar: do get kind of unhappy when they realize the mentors don't read every single time they send these emails. It's still required and important as a positive thing.
Kevin Kaspar: And you're gonna want to anticipate possible questions and prepare answers. This kind of goes with our FAQ. Yesterday building that FAQ. Dot, think about things that the mentors might ask you and be prepared to answer. You're only going to have 2025 min with each mentor. So you're gonna want to make sure that you make it count. And it's okay to not know, but as much as you can prepare for, commonly asked questions, and prepare how to explain your business to them, which is what we've been doing for the past 3 weeks. Now, prepare yourself for that.
Kevin Kaspar: Create an objective for each meeting based on the mentors experience. So this is part of your research. Not only will you research their backgrounds. Every single meeting needs to have an objective, I think, one to 2 things you want to get out of the meeting based on the mentors experience. So you're not going to go in there for someone who has a whole background in sales and growth, hacking and and all of that, and ask them about
Kevin Kaspar: I don't know your financial model, or something like it's it's you want to tailor it toward their experience, and it also shows respect that you took the time to look at their background and figure out what they might be helpful for. Right? You want to make them feel very wanted as well.
Kevin Kaspar: This objective is, gonna go in the in the email, and we'll get into that. But that's a big part of your agenda is this objective?
Kevin Kaspar: And then, lastly, your okrs are a great place to start when defining objectives. So this is a nice note from Chloe. Kind of plugging what you guys have been doing the past week. Think about what you're trying to get done and think about how meeting with the mentors can help you achieve those objectives.
Kevin Kaspar: Every objective with a mentor doesn't have to go toward your Okrs. There might be a mentor that can help you with like a side problem that you're having. It's totally fine. But if you feel lost, just look at your goals, and that can help you.
Kevin Kaspar: So any questions on beforehand. This is everything you need to do beforehand.
Dave Scott: Yeah. Hi, I've got a question, Liliana, or a couple of questions.
Kevin Kaspar: I do?
Dave Scott: Question number one is, I'm I'm kind of nervous that some of these mentors will be b 2 b focused, and which will not be very useful for me is that is that? Or could that happen? And and if so, do I still meet with them?
Dave Scott: And then the second question is, is it a good idea to put your Okrs into your introduction? Email? Just so they kind of have a good understanding right off the gate. As to what you're trying to strive for through the program.
Kevin Kaspar: I think if the Okrs are of both of them, or all 3 of them are relevant to what you're trying to get out of that meeting you should put them in. Otherwise you should pick the one that's relevant so that you don't distract and then for the other question, Dave, I'll have a slide on this, but
Kevin Kaspar: I want you to strive to get value out of every single meeting. It will
Kevin Kaspar: reflect very poorly on you if we set up a meeting which we are setting up with all of you, with one of these top mentors, and you decide that it's not worth your time. It's okay to go into a meeting. And if you just chat for 10 min and you've realized like, Okay, this is, this is great, like, I'm happy. We're both pleased. We can leave. That's okay. You don't have to just waste each other's time. But I do challenge you, Dave, to try and get value out of every single meeting. Yeah.
Kevin Kaspar: So even if their experience on paper isn't relevant to you, if you think it isn't, you have no idea who they might be connected to, or how they might still be able to be helpful. We've had so many times where a founders like this is the venture, I thought was going to be the least valuable end up being the most valuable.
Kevin Kaspar: So you never know what they're able to do who they're connected to, or what they might have. That isn't searchable or easy to like. Discover on the Internet.
Kevin Kaspar: And every class we've had has been a mix of b 2 B+B to C, and so if we had a problem where there was a mentor that was not helpful to have the class, we would know, and we prune the pool every single time. So these aren't just you know. We put out an ask out to the hundreds of mentors we have we hand pick the people you guys are going to meet in mentor madness. Since you guys are going to meet with all of the people that we choose
Kevin Kaspar: any other questions on before.
Kevin Kaspar: And, Dave, I'll have slides on everything you just asked. But that was a good question.
Kevin Kaspar: Okay, let's switch to. During. So during the meetings. So everything before. Just remember, you need to research. And Chloe will go much more in depth into how to do that research, and we'll also share some things that the past classes have done, such as splitting the work up between all of you and working as a team.
Kevin Kaspar: something. Neil and I haven't said yet that we say every program I realized this yesterday is tech stars should be viewed as 40 people working for the same company. Or I guess in your case, 25 people, you guys have about 25 founders, 25 founders working for the same company
Kevin Kaspar: for these 13 weeks. You guys are basically like 25 co-founders altogether. So doing things like combining all of your research for mentor madness only super charges all of your results. Right? So it's almost as if each company is just its own department within our big cohort.
Kevin Kaspar: Well, during the meetings start with a well practiced.
Kevin Kaspar: I said 1 min here, but I actually think it should be 20 to 30 seconds for your elevator pitch, leaving room for follow up questions. If you speak for about a minute. The person is going to
Kevin Kaspar: lose interest because they definitely have questions. They want to ask you to just practice like a 30 second elevator pitch that we practiced yesterday, and leave room for them to probe you with questions. Remember to write down the questions they ask you immediately after the pitch, so you always want to start by introducing yourself.
Kevin Kaspar: And in this intro email, you're also gonna introduce yourself and your company. So in the intro email, you will have already introduced your company. Don't assume that they've read it. Just say it again, and practice. But don't speak for too long. One mistake, I see, is people
Kevin Kaspar: enter the zoom and they start introducing themselves, and then they talk about their company for 5 min, and don't let the mentor ask anything, and then you're already like a quarter of the way done of your whole session.
Kevin Kaspar: You just want to quickly introduce yourself. Let them ask you the things they need to know about your business, and then the rest of the details will come out when you're asking them the questions and things you want to know. You don't need to just spend the whole 1st bit
Kevin Kaspar: getting them up to speed on your entire business. That would be a waste of both of your time. It's not intuitive, because it feels like that would be helpful. Kind of like going to a doctor or something. You need to tell them your full medical history. But that's not the case for this mentor meeting. That was bad practice.
Kevin Kaspar: So here's something I wrote. But this was before we had the elevator pitch workshop. So just review yesterday. That's a much better like kind of masterclass in what to say. But I used to say, start by saying, Hi, I'm blank and we help solve blank through or using blank. I'd love to talk to you today about Blank, because, like. So this last line should be your next, your next steps in your elevator pitch, like we practice. I'd love to talk to you today about and give your objective. And then the because is really important, because it shows the mentor that you thought it through. And there's a reason that you're asking them about that.
Kevin Kaspar: Don't talk the whole time. So I just said, Don't do your intro the whole time. I also need to make it very clear. You guys are all entrepreneurs, so you're very good at speaking about your business, and you really like to do it. But the whole point of coming to these meetings is to listen. So a successful meeting is the lowest percentage that you are speaking possible.
Kevin Kaspar: The higher percentage you can have the mentor speaking, the more successful the meeting is because you guys already know what you know. So why are you spending the time like using the error waves to speak about your business? You should, using the time to receive knowledge about your business. Only speak and answer the questions as as much as they need, and try to keep your answers brief, so that you can maximize the time that the mentor gets to give you advice
Kevin Kaspar: you can get value out of every meeting. This is what we were just saying. Today. I challenge each of you, because some of you will have our Pre product. And maybe a technical mentor isn't super relevant to you right now, that's all on paper. There are reasons that we chose each of these people.
Kevin Kaspar: And,
Kevin Kaspar: just be creative with how you're thinking about these objectives and be willing for the objectives to kind of change as the mentor is able to offer more help. So you might think, like, Yeah, maybe I'll ask them about my product in the future because it's not relevant right now, and they end up drilling you on pricing strategy because they have, like also expertise in that that didn't show up on their linkedin. So
Kevin Kaspar: you will get value out of every meeting like Neil said, and I'll say this later in a slide. You don't know who they may know
Kevin Kaspar: if they oh, if they can't help, who might, they know that can help? And you can also ask them if you know they have a background in a certain area. You can say, like, Do you know anyone in this area? I'm looking to do some customer discovery interviews with this screen criteria. Or I'm looking to talk to a mentor who has specific expertise in this area. Do you happen to know anyone? And you can very politely ask for a connection.
Kevin Kaspar: do research each mentor beforehand. This is crucial. I'll show you some real feedback from mentors at the end of this presentation, for when people do not research the mentors, but it would be the same if someone was asking for your time. Imagine they ask for your time a person from your Alma Mater. A student asks to ask you about startups, and then they get on the call, and they say, so. What are you building
Kevin Kaspar: like? Wouldn't you feel
Kevin Kaspar: like they should know what you're building. If they're asking for your time and your advice. It feels a little bit like they don't value your time or attention. So we definitely want to give their respect there. And it's also just best practice that you can get the most out of the meeting
Kevin Kaspar: just wanted to add, and I I'm not sure if you have a side facility on it. But one thing that happens a lot with our debriefs is.
Kevin Kaspar: some of you will have done good research and know that, like Mentor well, interact with them, and some of you don't.
Kevin Kaspar: and then they'll notice the contrast. So they'll gravitate to the foundation that shows in that respect.
Kevin Kaspar: So that happens a lot.
Kevin Kaspar: and they talk in the debrief so like every 4 sessions that we do. The 4 mentors speak to our team together, so I'll also hear, like, if you research one mentor, not the other, and stuff, they'll say, well, they weren't really prepared for my meeting. Why is that? Do they not care about what I have to say?
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah.
Kevin Kaspar: we'll get into that a little bit. Oh, Monica, you have a question.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): Yeah, outside of Linkedin. Do you recommend any other places on the Internet to research them? Because some people really haven't fleshed out their Linkedin profile.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, I'm not sure if you have material on this in the research thing, I would say, normal Google. So a lot of them have their own websites where they put a lot of stuff some of them have already posted like advice on blogs and things, so you can talk about like. Oh, I saw this blog you wrote on growth hacking like, can we talk about that?
Kevin Kaspar: And also tech stars? Universe has some mentor pages. They may have written about. What did you want to add, boy?
Kevin Kaspar: I'll talk more about it, and Chloe will talk more about it in the researching one on one next week.
Kevin Kaspar: Well, we didn't used to have a separate research segment, but we decided to go even more in depth on that, as like a separate thing, because it's really helpful to you guys.
Kevin Kaspar: Don't ask them to tell you their background. So this is like an actual thing that your predecessors have done to no fault of their own, because they didn't have this workshop they've gotten into the meeting like, tell me, tell me about this like. Tell me about what you've done.
Kevin Kaspar: Mentors do not like that.
Kevin Kaspar: You can ask them an educated question. Tell me about your time as chief marketing officer at whirlpool that like, because that seems really relevant to what I'm trying to do.
Kevin Kaspar: That's great. And I would even get more specific about that, because they were probably in that position for like 10 years. So what do you want to know about it?
Kevin Kaspar: You don't want to just ask them these big questions. It feels like a waste of their time. And honestly, it is because you could research that. And you have this prime time to actually ask them things that aren't on the Internet. So you want to make sure that you have these really knowledgeable questions, jobs to be done can kind of help you. With this help you be a good question asker. It's a really good exercise and muscle to build.
Kevin Kaspar: Be prepared to hear criticism.
Kevin Kaspar: Don't take negative feedback personally. It will only help you grow.
Kevin Kaspar: So
Kevin Kaspar: you guys have been one of the most polite and kind classes I think we've ever had, which is like a huge compliment, because it's something I think Neil and I both really like to see.
Kevin Kaspar: But I also don't want you guys to get your feelings hurt. Because you're so kind, and and you care so much about what people say. I think these mentors are only here to help you. So just remember that nothing is personal. They're just trying to help you with your business, and they already think your businesses are great because they know tech stars is great, and they trust the companies we've chosen. They're coming here to lend their time to help, and they've already seen your companies in the lookbook, so they do think they're great.
Kevin Kaspar: but they're here to kind of tear it apart. That's the value they're providing. So go in there expecting to basically like, get slashed up a bit, you know, we might have to put ourselves back together. And that's okay. It's only to help you grow
Kevin Kaspar: a lot of people who do not mentally prepare for that
Kevin Kaspar: need to take a lot of time after mentor madness to come to terms with the feedback that they've received. If you go in knowing that the whole purpose is for them to look at your company, kind of break it with a hammer and put it back together with puzzle pieces in different places to make it even better.
Kevin Kaspar: Then you can have that mindset and it won't. It won't shock you.
Kevin Kaspar: Does anyone wanna say anything about this or any questions. This is this is probably the most important thing I wanted to tell you guys today.
Kevin Kaspar: no matter how many times we say this, it happens, but just be there for each other. We time you all getting together in person after this purpose. Because
Kevin Kaspar: in your mind, like, yeah, I can take it whatever, but then it it weighs on you because somebody that you're really hoping to get a lot of like good support from ends up being really critical or skeptical of what you're doing, and that can be disappointing. So just know that we're here to help look you back up at that.
Kevin Kaspar: When that happens all of you will have criticism.
Kevin Kaspar: I completely agree. So right after mentor madness, you'll go to Ss tech week as much as you would like to, and then we'll all get back in person, and the mid program in week 6 will all be kind of like mental madness. Recovery, where we give you some workshops that help you digest that stuff. We have some exercises that help you digest the feedback. We'll also all be together, and so that helps to seeing everybody.
Kevin Kaspar: But yeah, some of you are probably thinking like, not my business. They're not going to tear mine apart. That's probably for everyone else. It's for every single one of you, every, all 12 will have negative feedback that we give you from the mentors. Yeah.
Kevin Kaspar: none of them should be recorded, so I'll get into. But you should should have someone with you for my solo founders either take notes or ask an associate to join with you.
Kevin Kaspar: recording. It is a disadvantage to you, as the Mentor won't speak candidly, and a lot of them just prefer not to record, so that won't. That won't be it? You take notes during most of the feedback will actually not be what they say to you during. It'll be what they say to us during the debrief, and then we write it all down, anonymize it, and give you this packet of raw, like really raw feedback. This is what they say about it.
Kevin Kaspar: You will not get that until the end of mentor madness, so you won't get that halfway through. You'll get that after the full 2 weeks, and then you'll have a lot of time to digest it, and we have exercises to help you go through it and make it into actionable items to do.
Kevin Kaspar: That's really where, like, the negative feedback comes. And that's okay. We're not like, we give them the freedom to say exactly what they think. The raw like taking them. But at the same time we have to create that
Kevin Kaspar: like space. Because, hey, I heard you said that
Kevin Kaspar: right? That's how we quickly learned to anonymize it because we didn't at the very beginning. And people would send these emails. Why would you say this like in the in the call? You didn't say this to my face, you know, like
Kevin Kaspar: you have to rein them in. So I realize it's just better for everyone to anonymize. And we've been doing that for about 10 programs. Now.
Kevin Kaspar: so yeah, this is just huge.
Kevin Kaspar: This is the whole purpose of mentor madness. If you just got sunshine and rainbows. And they were just like, Yeah.
Kevin Kaspar: I would think that's a waste of your time. Why are you even taking 2 weeks to do this just for them to say, Good job. You guys already got the good job you're in tech start. So that was like, that was your moment for like sunshine. Now, we're gonna actually get to work and get people's real feedback.
Kevin Kaspar: You need the mic now, so that zoom people can hear you.
Kevin Kaspar: Sorry. Sorry. So what I was saying, for the people on the zoom is that you're getting essentially the inside scoop of how people think about you and what they would say.
Kevin Kaspar: unbeknownst to you. Typically when you're having Vc interactions. So there's usually conversations that happen without you when a deal is being evaluated that tend to be more critical than anything they'd be willing to share via email, or even say to you personally, so that's what comes out of mentor madness as well as a big benefit to everybody.
Kevin Kaspar: Absolutely
Kevin Kaspar: okay. They're not criticizing you as a person. They're giving you constructive feedback about your business. I even went this extra step to clarify because I gave this workshop, and then someone after the 1st time I gave this workshop got the feedback.
Kevin Kaspar: This founder speaks too quickly.
Kevin Kaspar: or I'm trying to think of what else this founder seems distracted and scattered.
Kevin Kaspar: This CEO does not know how to lead things like that. Even those things picking apart your your skills, your personal skills is not picking you apart as a person.
Kevin Kaspar: So even if they say something like that, it's still trying to give you constructive feedback about your business, especially the Ceos. You are your business right now. They probably would love to hang out with you outside of this, even if they say something like that, or pick apart. You know the way you were acting in the meeting. And all of this, those are good points of feedback.
Kevin Kaspar: the way that you hold yourself the decorum, the way you're leading your business, all those things should not be taken personally, wouldn't you rather know than continue. And people think that about you, and you don't know. That's what happens to the founders outside of tech stars. Every meeting they have. People think these things, and they never get to know. So
Kevin Kaspar: I I would rather know and just try to go into it with that mindset. So even the feedback that is seems personal is not, and you should be prepared to hear things, especially Ceos, that are like about yourself, and the way you hold yourself and all of that.
Kevin Kaspar: that all of that is fair game. So don't be shocked by that
Kevin Kaspar: cool.
Kevin Kaspar: Be humble and be curious. So if someone has a different viewpoint than something that you currently believe about your business.
Kevin Kaspar: It's data. It is very helpful. So come into it with humility, curiosity. You don't have to take every single piece of advice.
Kevin Kaspar: It's up to you guys. You actually shouldn't take every single piece of advice. And the whole point is that you might be here with. With what you think. You'll hear someone who feels this way. You'll hear someone who feels this way, and I want you to be curious about all of those things, even though you feel a completely different way than both of them. You don't need to, I think.
Kevin Kaspar: Oh, be comfortable, saying, you don't know. That's another thing. Don't waste time rambling or waffling. It's okay to just not know the answer to a question. The mentor would rather you not just like make up an answer because that wastes time? Just say, you know, I don't know, and either I can get back to you in the follow up? Or what do you think? Or maybe we need to validate, that
Kevin Kaspar: the best kinds of founders are people who are humble and can say they don't know, and that's completely fine. This isn't like you're trying to put on a front or perform for them. The super move is in the follow up. So if there's something you don't know, write it down and say, I want to follow up with that. Once I've had time to think about it or look into it right? And in your follow up message to them. Sure you're addressing everything that you kind of alluded to, that you couldn't address in real time. It's very impressive when founders do that very few end up actually doing.
Kevin Kaspar: Do ask questions. The main thing you should be doing is answering anything they ask you, and then having questions to ask them
Kevin Kaspar: really thoughtful questions that are well researched and toward your objective. So if you feel like you're just like asking questions because we assigned you this mentor, and then you had to do some homework to like, make up questions. You should probably thank them for their time and wind down? These questions should be helpful to your business. Every minute of this should be helpful to your business, and you should only go and call it in as much as it is helpful. So you can very politely end early if you feel like you're just making up questions at this point, but that usually doesn't happen.
Kevin Kaspar: Don't ask for money. This is a true story.
Kevin Kaspar: The mentors are not here
Kevin Kaspar: to be potential investors. A lot of them are angel investors. They're here under the like trust and give 1st aspect of being mentors. So you can continue the mentor relationship after you meet them today. I think one of the alumni called it a 1st date. It's it's a 1st date. So we don't need to ask for marriage just meeting them right now. That would be kind of a betrayal of trust. This is not an investor meeting, even if some of them
Kevin Kaspar: seem interested.
Kevin Kaspar: If they offer or start talking like, Hey, are you raising right now? That's a different story, and you might run out of time, and you can talk to them again later. That usually doesn't happen. So you should just take investment out of your mind for this. This is completely separate. Every now and then it will happen. There will be times where the mentor takes control of the meeting
Kevin Kaspar: where they are like. All right. Well, I want to talk to you about this.
Kevin Kaspar: My advice, there is just kind of let them, you know, roll with it if it makes sense, if if it if it's not corrupting what your what your plan is, and some of them end up investing in companies. It happens all the time it's happened. Most programs that we've had. We've had mentors invest in founders companies. But it's not because you show up and say, Hey, will you write me a check that happens at the end of the program when we want you all to start making asks of the people you've met. But it's not the time right now, unless they are the one who invites it.
Kevin Kaspar: I I'll get to you one second, Kevin. I wanna caveat. What Neil's saying is, if it's useful to you to let the mentor take over them. Yes, I've had founders come and say, this mentor just took it over and, like went in this direction, you're in charge of this meeting like it's for you so you can very politely steer it back if they go off on a tangent, because something's really interesting to them. And you're like, that's not what we're focusing on right now. I want to ask you about this. It's on you to do that. So if I get a message, it's like the mentor did this. I'm going to tell you. Why didn't you steer it back like
Kevin Kaspar: You're you're not a passive participant in this meeting, but if it's really helpful. Lean into it like Neil, said Kevin.
Kevin Kaspar: I think this generally.
Kevin Kaspar: Is there better decipher if the question, are you raising money right now? Is a general ask, or if it's a lead into them actually wanting to raise money like, well, venture slash Vcs make that very obvious that they want to
Kevin Kaspar: you. You should basically expect that they're not asking about money, because is that where during mentor madness, they're coming in for mentorship.
Kevin Kaspar: So like, basically just assume and honestly, just not being like a like thirsty or desperate is better. So just assume nobody's asking you for money. They're just asking you strategically, so they can help, you know, to know? Like, if you should raise or anything like that, you just assume they're not asking to invest cause. It happens that rarely in follow up conversations. It happens commonly with our mentors, but not in mentor madness. So you just assume it won't happen.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, it's actually pretty boring and disappointing when we see founders who are only interested in talking about fundraising. It's like fundraising is a means to an end to build a great business. So what you should 1st be asking about is, how can I build a great business?
Kevin Kaspar: And then I happen to need resources to execute this really important strategy to my business. That's where funding comes into play. But if a founder is showing up, and all they're interested in is talking about capital, and where they're going to get it from and how you can help them get it. It's kind of like a an eye roll, basically for us investors
Kevin Kaspar: conversation back to kiss, because sometimes not even like. Don't let them keep going
Kevin Kaspar: similar to jobs to be done. I I really want to respect our time here, and I'd love to follow up and talk to you about that. I have a few other things I wanted to make sure we had time for, and we've only got about 15 min. Is it okay? If we table that for a next conversation.
Kevin Kaspar: something like that, and you can add it like a flattering compliment like, because, like, I really love your experience in this area, and I want to make sure that I get to that like, I'm really interested in that exactly.
Kevin Kaspar: That's a good question, too.
Kevin Kaspar: Any questions on Zoom. Are you guys doing well?
Kevin Kaspar: Oh, okay.
Kevin Kaspar: mentor whiplash. We've talked about this a couple of times. This is really where it will happen because you're gonna meet with like 20 people, many will have conflicting advice. It'll be crazy. But, like
Kevin Kaspar: all 20 of them, could just have 20 different opinions. So you should be aware of that something that Bob Mesta teaches is like, you take each data point
Kevin Kaspar: and you write it down. And the people on zoom. I'm just making dots. And basically, you're gonna draw patterns from what people think
Kevin Kaspar: and the places that have the most energy are probably the ways that you want to go.
Kevin Kaspar: Let me see if I can unmute my background for you guys.
Kevin Kaspar: Okay, you still can't see it. But basically where, where the majority of the energy is and where you see a pattern of most people saying something. That's probably where you want to go. And that's just you don't have to. You can take the the less popular opinion, too. But that's just a starting point that we teach, because that's something that Bob teaches. When you have all of these different opinions, what do I do? You start drawing patterns, and you can take the majority. Since this is like a thought group that you can trust.
Kevin Kaspar: But you also just can go with your gut if you really agree with these 2 mentors. And the other 18 said. Something else is totally valid, too. So it's up to you how you want to take it. We have, like a prioritization exercise and a way to think through this that goes through multiple, different exercises that will give to you after mentor madness. So you don't have to think too much. This is just data collection. We'll deal with the analysis and synthesizing it later.
Kevin Kaspar: I would say that some of the things I do hear from people are like. I don't know how to keep keep going through these meetings, because they just keep telling me something different every time. And it and it's just like my brain is spinning or something. I really do think, taking yourself out of it and seeing yourself as collecting data will help with that. Don't go into it thinking at the end of the 2 weeks, you're gonna like, know exactly what to do with your business. Remember that Techsarge isn't supposed to be prescriptive. It's just supposed to offer you a lot of different opinions, and you guys are at the helm of the ship.
Kevin Kaspar: so you will have to figure out what to do. You're not going to come out of this being told, every single mentor will tell you what to do, but they're all going to be different.
Kevin Kaspar: Well, take it all with a grain of salt, but never argue with a mentor. This is really important. I think a lot of
Kevin Kaspar: founders have strong opinions, and someone might say something that seems completely different or might contradict your entire business. We've had I'm trying to think we've had mentors that go in and just say, like, I really don't think the premise of your business is gonna work.
Kevin Kaspar: or like, I really want to challenge, like the core assumption that you're making about this business cause I I don't think I think you need to change or pivot, because this doesn't seem true to me.
Kevin Kaspar: I think that's data. So like
Kevin Kaspar: one out of the 20 could say that. And you know what you might, you might think like, maybe they're right. Maybe I need to test this assumption.
Kevin Kaspar: or you can think. Thank you for that opinion like that makes sense. Why you think that, or let tell me why you think that, let me clarify and learn about it, and that's what to. And then that's just data like you don't need to convince that person in these 20 min. Why, they need to believe what you believe. They can go on their merry way and like, forget about this conversation and it that's totally fine. So you don't need everybody on like in the whole world to agree with your viewpoint for your viewpoint to be valid
Kevin Kaspar: valid. I think a lot of people don't have that mindset, and it's it's kind of detrimental.
Kevin Kaspar: You do not need to argue with people. People are just giving you advice. Take it or leave it.
Kevin Kaspar: Be aware of where you're taking your calls from. So mentor madness will be virtual. It is a much easier logistical lift for you guys to do it. Virtually, we've done it virtually
Kevin Kaspar: for 11 out of the 12 programs. But that means that you guys need to have zoom hygiene. So I didn't used to have this in here. But in 2,022 we had a a whole host of problems with people on zoom. So
Kevin Kaspar: you need to make sure that you have good stable Wi-fi, that you're not in the dark like they need to be able to see you. They need to be able to hear you. So your mic needs to be working. Your camera needs to be working. It's very unprofessional. If either of those aren't working and test your microphone to make sure it comes in properly, because I think some of you, at least recently I noticed that there might be either feedback or echoing this with your microphone like, make sure it's very easy to hear what you're saying.
Kevin Kaspar: You wanna make up the most of these minutes. So you don't want any tech issues? You also want to make sure your background is not distracting. So you don't want a lot going on back there. If you're in a coffee shop you want to use like a virtual background. And you wanna make sure it's quiet. There's not background noise.
Kevin Kaspar: We had a founder who had a slide exactly like this as their background, and just like how we have tech stars right there. They had, like their company logo, and they used it for all of tech stars. But the the mentors all hated it, they said, like it was like blind date, because they had this white background while they were taking the calls. And so we had them change it. So it's just like that specific.
Kevin Kaspar: These people are just giving a lot of their time. So they want it to be like as seamless as possible. Yeah, we've had founders try to take calls from their phone while they're on the go. We've had them take calls with their video off, which came off as unprofessional to the mentor. We've had founders have a lot of background, noise, and like hope that they could just power through. So it it sucks to have to. I mean.
Kevin Kaspar: we shouldn't have to say these things, but we have to say these things because we've seen all this happen. And now we need to make it explicit that you should be in a controlled environment.
Kevin Kaspar: And like I said, when we started, Neil, you were, I think, out of the room. But I was saying, all of this is not just for weeks 3 and 4. This is like hygiene you should have for every meeting. So you should have this kind of hygiene, for investor calls. Customer calls other mentor calls like when you're trying to gain advisors or board members, things like that. This is the way you should show up for every single sort of high stakes. Professional setting. There shouldn't really be any sort of this bottomly nature unless you know that, like, it's a more casual setting.
Kevin Kaspar: Lead mentors lead mentors are going to be. This is something we do at techstars. So in mentor madness, if there's someone that you really jive with, and you feel like, Hey, you know, I want to start a relationship with you like the 1st date worked. And you want to go study and ask. I would say, 2 to 3 people.
Kevin Kaspar: To be your lead mentors is not a requirement. If you feel like you have all of the help you need. You don't have to, and I also don't recommend doing more than 3, because most of you are pretty small teams.
Kevin Kaspar: you ask them. It's a double opt in, and it has nothing to do with us, so we don't facilitate this at all. This is something that our mentors are aware of, and they can say yes or no. Sometimes people will say no, because they don't have time but what the commitment is is, if you ask them to be your lead mentor, it would mean you have a weekly or bi-weekly call with them for the remainder of tech stars, and with another double opt in maybe even after tech stars. So if you want to build that relationship, you can ask them to be your lead mentor.
Kevin Kaspar: some of them will take on multiple of you. Some of them will say no, because someone already asked them. So it's very much one of my cohorts last year said, it's like the bachelor, and you're giving the rose so like. That's how you should think of it. And then, like they need to accept the rose. So it's like that.
Kevin Kaspar: And
Kevin Kaspar: again.
Kevin Kaspar: I'm can't drill this point like
Kevin Kaspar: deeper
Kevin Kaspar: We do not facilitate this. So sometimes I have founders who like don't ask any of the mentors, and then they ask, when do I get my lead mentor?
Kevin Kaspar: That's on you like I'm not that that has nothing to do with me. What's cool is when you report back like, Hey, this mentor is going to be my lead mentor. I just wanted to let you guys know the good news. That's awesome. I love to hear about it. But
Kevin Kaspar: what'd she said, thanks, Annie. But yeah, basically, it's on you guys, 2 to 3 people that you really like. You should ask, or one to 3, you should ask to be your lead mentors.
Kevin Kaspar: I feel like that's the gist of it. Does anyone have questions about this?
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, they're not expecting it, because now all of them will be asked so like they won't be upset if you don't ask them, but they do know what it is. We've explained it, and we've explained to the new mentors, too. The new mentors might forget. So you might have to add like, remind them. But we explained it in the emails.
Kevin Kaspar: The majority of them know what it is. Yeah. And it's not like they. They're not all like biting at chomping at the bed like, it's okay to not ask certain people. But if you feel like you want to meet with someone weekly or Bi weekly for the rest program that they could really help you. You should ask them.
Kevin Kaspar: I don't know if there is one.
Kevin Kaspar: That's what's happening.
Kevin Kaspar: Some of them live in. Sf, but we run Mentor madness remotely. It just is a logistical nightmare to do any sort of in person. We know that from experience.
Kevin Kaspar: So. But you can always follow up and be with them in person. So yeah, after you're going to say it on you, yeah, I was, gonna say, you can meet for coffee and your follow up conversation. If you know they're local, they would love that.
Kevin Kaspar: No, this this works very well, because because it's such a like. It's only for 20 min. And we're like cycling through. And all of this in person. You actually end up missing like half of the meeting time, because we're like we're shuffling. We're trying to figure out what room to sit in. Okay, where am I supposed to be in zoom? It's like you get the full 25 min, because we we kind of just like, put you where you need to be in the room like we have the Admin controls. And you just are where you need to be at the full time.
Kevin Kaspar: It's much more professional that way.
Kevin Kaspar: are are we scheduling them so it'll be that same block every day. That's Mark mentioned that just on the calendar I'm going to send out actual invites that'll block your calendar later today that you can add in relevant team members to
Kevin Kaspar: yeah, but it's it's going to be the same 2 h block each day. I would recommend sort of back to the debrief dimension
Kevin Kaspar: sort of not necessarily saying back in the meetings themselves, that's because in the debrief that they have with that team they're able to put their thoughts together a little bit better. I would highly recommend also taking that 20 or 30 min after the metro madness slot to debrief with your team internally
Kevin Kaspar: to make sure you're understanding on their feedback and feeling ready for the next day. But it's going to be 2 2 h on your calendar from us each day.
Kevin Kaspar: So the people on Zoom. The question was, do we have to do you? The founders have to schedule? The answer is, no. Our team's been working really hard for the past since before we started program getting mentor madness ready. So you don't have to do any scheduling.
Kevin Kaspar: fully posted Mentor madness groups. You're either A B or C, that's your group for all 8 days of mentor madness.
Kevin Kaspar: or 7 days, however many it is over the 2 weeks. So if you're group A, then you have nothing in the afternoons or evenings for that whole 2 weeks, your group B, you have your mornings and evenings off, but you know you have that afternoon slot, and C is like the late afternoon slot. So make sure you look at that. You'll know and that'll be your whole 2 h block, Chloe also was saying. Make sure you block like a half an hour after to debrief, because it's gonna be a lot and like, don't put a meeting back to back to that block.
Kevin Kaspar: Take a moment to like, absorb the feedback and just take a breather because it's a lot, and then do the rest of your day. So really good advice there.
Kevin Kaspar: people also ask, when do we ask for lead mentors like, when when is the right time? Definitely? Not in the call? I think that's a little rushed like I said. It's like you're on this 1st date, and like you're like, do it? You want to be with me like it should be a follow up either in the follow up email or you have a follow up call, and then you can ask them sooner rather than later. But also don't jump to jump to things, cause you might want to meet more mentors before you're like sold on one or 2.
Kevin Kaspar: So it's just like it's an art. That's why we called it like the bachelor. It's like you have to think about it. Other people will ask. So you're also like, you're not competing. But you should be aware that other people will ask people, and the mentors have a finite amount of time. You also want to make sure you're short. So you want to see all the mentors. So it's a balance. Just make sure that when you're you feel good about someone you write them. It usually in an email, is the best way in your follow up. Annie has a question.
Annie Brown: Yes. So these in that 2 h block. The the mentor meetings are kind of back to back in that block.
Kevin Kaspar: Say it one more time, Annie. I'm sorry.
Annie Brown: The in that 2 h block. You said that we have every for me. I'm group A, so every morning. Are the mentor meetings and back to back in that block.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, that's a good question. It'll just be 25, 5, 25, 5, 25, 5, 25, 5. So you'll have a 5 min, break in between each.
Annie Brown: Okay, cause I was gonna say that, you know, if a if a conversation is going along, do the mentors understand? They're like.
Annie Brown: Hey, I've got to hop to my next meeting like they won't see that as rude or anything.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, we force you, yeah, we force you out.
Annie Brown: Oh, okay.
Kevin Kaspar: You don't have to worry
Kevin Kaspar: where the magic it'll just say rooms are closing and you'll have 60 seconds to close.
Annie Brown: I love that.
Kevin Kaspar: So that's a great question or point, Annie, because
Kevin Kaspar: you need to make sure that the mentors are getting their breaks. I feel like one of the more inconsiderate things that founders do, unless the mentor explicitly says, I don't need a break. Let's keep talking. Don't go into their break, so like we'll force you out at the last minute. But we expect most of you to finish on time and come back to the to the room. We'll send a little message like, Hey, time's up so that you can close and come back for your break. Give the mentors a break, too, because they're also going back
Kevin Kaspar: back thing, and some of them are doing the full day. Not like you guys. They'll meet with all of you in one day, so give them a bio break. Give them time to get water. Don't
Kevin Kaspar: push through that 5 min like, even though you want more time. Just schedule another call with them. They do need that 5 min break. So just be mindful that they're people, too. If they invite you to keep talking. They're like, I don't need that. That's fine, but most of them do cherish the breaks because it is a long day.
Kevin Kaspar: You guys like, I said, are are such polite people. I I'm sure that you'll not have a problem with that
Kevin Kaspar: real feedback from mentors. This is my favorite part.
Kevin Kaspar: This is stuff that I stripped out of people's feedback packets, and I want to share with you. So a direct quotes I haven't changed them.
Kevin Kaspar: They wasted the meeting because the whole time I was trying to understand their business. So this comes from not being able to introduce your business well enough, right? You're not articulating it. Well, in your elevator pitch. Maybe this person didn't start with an intro at all or didn't send an intro email or just weren't able to articulate the answers to the follow up questions. The mentors had to clarify the business.
Kevin Kaspar: So this will be a myriad of issues. Make sure that you're able to explain your business. That's why we did the W. 3. That's why we did all of that and make sure that the person is on the same page as you, so that they can help you.
Kevin Kaspar: It was clear they didn't know who I was. This one was what we were talking about, where
Kevin Kaspar: someone researched and someone didn't, or they researched one mentor and not the other. And the one mentor was kind of upset, and they said it was clear they didn't know who I was, which meant like, I don't really want to help this this group, or actually, I remember this exact case. This person would have been able to help
Kevin Kaspar: a founder really well, because they have a very good fit, and that founder missed out by like not researching enough to know that they had this like very key piece of experience, or where they could have made a connection. And so they said it was clear they didn't know who I was.
Kevin Kaspar: I could have helped. I promise you. The mentor is not going to go hunt down that founder and say like, Hey, actually, I can help. It's a missed opportunity, like the ship has sailed, unless they send an apology. So it is kind of a fleeting opportunity that you need to make sure that you're grasping.
Kevin Kaspar: They asked me for a personal favor for a loved one. It was very unprofessional. This is from my 1st cohort in 2020, and a true story.
Kevin Kaspar: This is unprofessional. You shouldn't do that. You're here. They're here to talk about your business. You guys can have small talk and like talk about. If they want to know? Like, Oh, yeah, I just went to the Uk. And I love this area. It's like, Oh, that's really cool. Where did you visit? That's fine. Don't ask them to do something like a favor for something that's outside of your business. That's just it's not what they're here for. It's kind of taking advantage of their time.
Kevin Kaspar: It it doesn't make any sense so definitely. Don't do that. Focus on your business. They're here to talk about your business, and don't ask them for help outside of the things that would help your start up.
Kevin Kaspar: That's really what they've signed up for.
Kevin Kaspar: They talked at me the entire time, and I barely got a word in. So this is one of the most common pieces of feedback I get, even when I say it, in this web in this session.
Kevin Kaspar: They talked at me the entire time.
Kevin Kaspar: I promise you
Kevin Kaspar: talk like 50% less than you think you should. So if you already think you need to talk less. Talk half as much as that, because the mentors really want to help you, and they really don't like it's not helpful to them to hear. You guys keep talking about your business like they're really smart. They'll get it in a few minutes.
Kevin Kaspar: and the rest of the time can be spent hearing their expertise when they ask or ask you questions. Don't be long winded. That's something that eliminates people from our tech search process a lot is we ask them questions and we only get through one or 2 questions on a 30 min call, because they're so long winded that
Kevin Kaspar: I'm sorry we didn't even get to learn about your business, and I can't really help you, because we have to move on in the process. So you guys didn't do that because you're here. Don't do that here in the in the mentor stuff.
Kevin Kaspar: Very important.
Kevin Kaspar: Annie.
Annie Brown: Yeah, I was wondering how the give 1st applies in these mentor meetings like, so should you take any of the time to ask about.
Annie Brown: You know how you might be able to support them? Or is it understood that this is a meeting for you making asks.
Kevin Kaspar: But see, you guys are so kind. That is such a sweet question. I don't know if people ask for that. I like. I think it's really kind when at the very end it's like, Is there anything I can help you with? But they they don't expect anything from you like if you genuinely. And you want to ask, I think that's super cool, especially mentors, who might be like, you know, actually like looking for things. But they're not here to get stuff from you. It's give first.st That's so kind that you want to give first, st too. But the way you get 1st is making their
Kevin Kaspar: making their meeting, give them good feelings, making them feel like they helped you, making them feel like their time was worth it to you. So you were respectful. You researched them like making them feel like they are someone to you that all of that is the way you give back
Kevin Kaspar: being respectful in the in the meeting. That's the best thing you can do.
Kevin Kaspar: I'll also tell you the other best thing you can do, Annie, the way you can get back. It's a thank you. Email, which is a slide later. That's really like, that's all they want. But in the thank you, email, if you want to write like, you know. Let me know if there's any, any, ever anything I can help you with. That's great. Most of the mentors don't expect to get anything from you guys. They want you to build great businesses, and they know you're busy. So just just gratitude.
Kevin Kaspar: I'm not sure how to help them, because they didn't have a point to ask. So when you are, don't have an objective. You're just kind of sitting in this call, hoping to find your way, and we only have 25 min. So you're not going to find your way. You're gonna just waste the time.
Kevin Kaspar: So when you just keep asking like, Oh, tell me about your background here. Oh, that's cool. Yeah, that seems really similar to our our business, like, you're not getting anywhere. So you want to point to ask. That's the whole point of the objective. It doesn't have to be like you're asking them for something. It could be a question you want to learn more about, or it could be. You're asking them for something. It'd be like, I'm here because I want to ask you to please make me interested, these 3 people.
Kevin Kaspar: if you feel comfortable
Kevin Kaspar: or it could be. I'm here because I really need help with growth marketing, and I don't have experience in that. But you did really well scaling your business in that area. So please tell me how you did that, because it's so similar to what we're going through. That's a great ask, like a lot of founders, find similar experiences and ask them in your experience. Tell me how you overcame this. That's like a very valuable use of time.
Kevin Kaspar: Any any use of time is a great and valid way to do it, not having a good use of time not having an objective is the worst way to do it.
Kevin Kaspar: Good idea in the email that we sent ahead of time to introduce ourselves. If we have a specific specific thing in mind to argue, which I'd like to focus on. Yeah, following.
Kevin Kaspar: yeah, I'm not. I had it in my 1st slide. I'm not going to go all the way back in. But basically, your objective should be included in that intro email. Just
Kevin Kaspar: yeah. Your objective per mentor. Yeah, every email should be customized to that mentor. Because you're gonna want to talk about like, hey? I I saw your background in this. Here's what I'd love to talk about so intro objective with a reason why.
Kevin Kaspar: that's what should be in the in the email.
Kevin Kaspar: Okay, that was all the feedback
Kevin Kaspar: and there, yeah, Kevin. I was just hoping to add one more thing related to Mentor whiplash and minimizing it. A lot of the quotes you saw were around negative feedback that you're going to receive at the same time. You're also going to get lots of ideas about your business, lots of positive feedback. And I think that can also play into mentor whiplash, because you'll get advice early on that. You might be really excited about. And you're already thinking about ways to implement that into your business, and then you get differing advice. And that's where I think you start to get thrown off.
Kevin Kaspar: So I would challenge you guys to wait until towards the end of mentor madness, to start synthesizing a lot of that, just to think about it more holistically instead of the dots individually. That is so true, Kevin. I I didn't ever put that in the slide. But that's exactly what happens. Did everyone on zoom here, Kevin?
Kevin Kaspar: Cool? Yeah. So it's so tempting like, yeah, the 1st day you're gonna get all this and be like, let's go build. Oh, my gosh! You still have 2 weeks left of people to sell you stuff, and if you get sold just because we randomly assigned you to that mentor the 1st day, you probably aren't going to pick the best thing you could when you can be analytical about it. Right?
Kevin Kaspar: So let's do after after the meetings. So we did before we did during. This is how you follow up.
Kevin Kaspar: Annie. This is what you were asking. And he had the nice, really kind question Neil of like, how do we get back to the mentors. Isn't this? Isn't that so kind? You guys are the best. Send a thank you. Email. That's how you get back. Let them know that their time mattered, and it was really helpful to you.
Kevin Kaspar: Life hack is.
Kevin Kaspar: hey? I really appreciated when you said X,
Kevin Kaspar: make sure that you. They know that you like. Remember something I really appreciated how we talked about your your background here, or I learned this I love when people respond to me and say, like thanks for your time. I really I learned this from our meeting. That makes me feel like that was 30 min well spent.
Kevin Kaspar: and that's all they want
Kevin Kaspar: and then include any. Follow up on next steps they gave you. This is like a huge miss them some people do, because they feel like they don't have time to like craft. The whole email. Just don't think too much about it. It doesn't need to be like the world's best email. It just needs to be a timely email. So sending it 24 to 48 h afterward is essential. When you let it go further, the mentors start thinking you're not going to send one.
Kevin Kaspar: So make sure that you try to get it in that window. That's why the Crm is really important, like you're tracking your follow up just like you sent the before email. And you did your research. You're going to send the follow up
Kevin Kaspar: any next steps they gave you check your notes? Did they tell you to send a forwardable? You don't have to send the forwardable in the thank you. Email. You just have to say
Kevin Kaspar: I like, I'm working on the forwardable to this. Thank you for the offer to intro. I will send it to you next week, like, just follow up by telling them you acknowledge that, like it's incoming. If they said to send you a document for them to review whatever it is like, follow up there so that they can do next steps
Kevin Kaspar: or if they give you advice, if they gave you advice.
Kevin Kaspar: even if you don't want to follow it. I've seen people really kindly say, like, I really appreciated your advice on this, we're we're gonna be heads down on this area. But it's something I'm gonna keep in mind in the future like you can even say that or you can say I heard your advice on really doubling down and researching this this methodology, and we'll be spending next week doing that like. It's up to you. Or you can just thank them for for their advice on that. You don't have to tell them if you're gonna do it or not.
Kevin Kaspar: So it's it's just up to you. There are lots of different ways to do it.
Kevin Kaspar: You have 31 second.
Kevin Kaspar: Oh, sorry. Okay. But thank you.
Kevin Kaspar: The thank you. Emails are also just really good sort of notation hygiene. So you could go back and
Kevin Kaspar: left those conversations and have a follow up point for future conversations.
Kevin Kaspar: You're too busy.
Kevin Kaspar: I went ahead and posted in the past of Intro. And thank you emails where a mentor, a mentor like sent the intro and follow up to us. And it's like this is the best set of emails I've gotten for getting into madness. So you can see how like the things that really make intro and thank you. Emails great are just specificity and proving that you listened
Kevin Kaspar: so really clear objective, based on the mentors background and then really quick, follow up, based on the action items that the mentor presented. That makes them feel like they were tactical and like they were understood. And like they're on the same page with the company, the mentoring. So those examples are there for you to look at after this meeting here and
Kevin Kaspar: feel free to reach out.
Kevin Kaspar: Could you guys hear Chloe? Or do you want me to repeat it on? Zoom.
Kevin Kaspar: I get a thumbs up, thumbs up. You heard Phillie.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): Could you repeat?
Kevin Kaspar: Okay, cool.
Kevin Kaspar: Okay, yeah. So Chloe posted really good examples of before email and a and a follow up email, she, she was saying, it's really good for like note taking purposes to like, be able to follow up with that conversation and see where you left off, and what the next steps were, so that good hygiene is also useful for the future, not just to make the mentor feel good. And you should check out those examples that she's gonna post. Right after this, the main thing that the mentors called out
Kevin Kaspar: they sent those examples to us was the specificity and also having a strong objective. Both of those things were really important to show that you listened, or that you've thought it out.
Kevin Kaspar: Okay, so I'd like to end with some prep prep. Talk. We're all very prepared. You're already in techstar. So you guys are awesome. We've been telling you this whole week how how awesome you are. We've told the mentors how awesome you are. So now we're just gonna work together in our little safe bubble to criticize your business and figure out what to take out and where to change, so that you can get better. So that's the whole purpose here. So in the next 2 weeks, like in 2 weeks from now.
Kevin Kaspar: 3 weeks from now, at the end of Mentor. Madness. You won't have the same business that you have right now. You'll have a business that's been kind of ripped apart and put a magnifying glass to, and we'll help you pick up the pieces. And what's gonna come out is going to be something even better than what you came in here with. And that's the whole point. That's like the whole value that we bring to you guys. So you should go in with that expectation. And that's the whole purpose. So it's totally fine. So I don't want anyone to get discouraged. I want everyone to be really excited, to receive this feedback and to be prepared to do a really good job with the mentors.
Kevin Kaspar: you've got this that sentence.
Kevin Kaspar: What's your questions
Kevin Kaspar: about mentor madness? Specifically.
Kevin Kaspar: thank you, Annie.
Kevin Kaspar: Okay, I guess we covered everything. Did you want to add anything now? Or where are we? Good?
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah,
Kevin Kaspar: that's okay. So the only thing I'll add is,
Kevin Kaspar: people help people who they like.
Kevin Kaspar: Very simply, right? So I I it's it's it's kind of crazy like you get to a place where you're like. This person shouldn't even be spending this kind of time with me. They shouldn't be helping me in this way it'll be really tempting to I get to the point where I almost feel like some people have been so helpful to me, where I want to give them.
Kevin Kaspar: You know, things like I feel like I should be either be paying them or giving up equity in my business for them, so I don't know if you went over this already with the like non solicitation stuff.
Kevin Kaspar: Oh, okay, so this is important. We should probably add this to this
Kevin Kaspar: in the future. Yeah. So one thing that can happen from time to time is a mentor will try to
Kevin Kaspar: persuade you to like work with them and then give up what they call advisor share shares. That's a huge no, no, as far as how we run our program. So if anybody you interact with throughout techstars is asking you for either a PC. Or company, or you for your time or help. Let us know, because that's something we've already communicated. Anybody involved in our program is unacceptable.
Kevin Kaspar: Right? So be mindful of that. But at the same time, usually it's the opposite problem where I'm hearing from founders, because they got so much help from someone they're like, I want them to be involved, or I want them to have a piece of equity on my business. And what I will typically default with is to recommend the founder ask for them to invest.
Kevin Kaspar: It's not just giving them a piece of your company. Have them put skin in the game right, even if they're helping you, and you feel like it's already worth something. It would be an honor for the right kind of mentor to still pull out money. Put cash in on your business so I can help coach you guys through that. I've dealt with it a lot but just be the kind of person that somebody would want to help, and that tends to go the longest way. So, and the way you do. That is by demonstrating how much you care about the problem you're solving with your business
Kevin Kaspar: and being really coachable. Yeah, I think we don't usually have a problem with that with our Texas Chicago mentors. But it's something we've noticed a little bit more out in the Bay area here. So it's something to be aware of. Some of the mentors are new mentors. So that's probably who, if anyone that would happen with I'm hoping that doesn't happen at all where people are soliciting equity. But if it does, you should let us know right away. Yeah, sometimes, especially out here, like Liliana said. And then the last thing I'll I'll mention is like
Kevin Kaspar: some of them just want tech stars in their like Linkedin profile.
Kevin Kaspar: And so we're looking to weed that out like we don't. We're not interested in like optics or aesthetics, or anything like that. So if you could help us weed out anybody who has that energy, let us know for sure.
Kevin Kaspar: like you guys, extremely good. 1st
Kevin Kaspar: on that point. This is a great flag like I remember I made a flag last week. On the assumptions workshop
Kevin Kaspar: to not spend on things that are like assumptions you haven't tested. And we're going to talk about spending in week 6. But just do your future self a favor to not spend on unvalidated assumptions?
Kevin Kaspar: Do your future self a favor by not giving out equity, or any sort of advisors like that like, if that's something that you're interested in, or or even like new people coming to your company, you should talk to Neil before you make any sort of deals like that.
Kevin Kaspar: Some of, aside from spending a ton of money on unvalidated assumptions, the other regret most people have in the 1st half of program is giving advisory shares. They they think like, oh, I was kind of tricked. I didn't realize that that wasn't something I should be doing. Some of you may have already done that. And that's okay, because that already happened. And we can help you with that. But don't just give out equity.
Kevin Kaspar: The thing I always say is like, right now on paper, it seems like nothing, right? Like a couple of percent here, a couple of percent there, it's like, why, what does it matter?
Kevin Kaspar: Your businesses? I believe in your businesses. Those are dollars. Those are millions of dollars that you're giving out. It does not feel like that right now. So we so liberally just want to share them.
Kevin Kaspar: Don't do that. Remember your tenure self in the future, that you're just giving out millions of dollars that your future self could have had in their in their hand. So remember that your businesses right now. It seems like nothing, but it won't be so. Don't give out equity like that.
Kevin Kaspar: Can I add to that? Briefly, too sure.
Kevin Kaspar: just super fast, that also ties into fundraising like as you continue to fundraise, investors are going to really dig into your cap table. And if there's someone who has a significant amount of equity who's not on the C team. It's like a huge flag, and it can be a huge turn off. And it's a whole process of like, why, you would do this. So be really mindful around who you give equity to and like, Liliana said definitely, check with
Kevin Kaspar: me. I'll check with myself, and you know, as you kind of think about how to make a really clean cap table to continue to raise.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, we call it dead weight and deals end up, not getting done because of it.
Kevin Kaspar: So if there's people on your cap table who have way too much and you can't get it back or give it up. We're like, okay, there's no way we're gonna actually be able to move forward with this. They have to clean up their cap table.
Kevin Kaspar: We've had deals that we haven't been able to get done because of that. Yeah, me, too, George, I was. Gonna say, what would you consider like a large amount?
Kevin Kaspar: It's relative, but, like mo like it, it's relative to how involved a person is and what their role is. But like, let's just
Kevin Kaspar: like the 1st number that came to my head was 5%
Kevin Kaspar: right? That's on the that's on the the low end of the amount. But still, that's not insignificant.
Kevin Kaspar: I've got 2 advisors. Well, one's really, really like it's actually part of the company with one.
Kevin Kaspar: I haven't given him the shares yet. We've negotiated a long time ago, but he's not pulling his way so like, don't do it. Yeah. I mean, he's my good friend.
Kevin Kaspar: We can talk more about it. One thing that helps with these things is vesting agreements and schedules as well, so have them earn it out over time, and have a clear understanding of what that looks like, but few and far between, like founders, should be stingy about allocating equity because of how valuable you know that equity is going to be down the road. That's a signal to investors that you plan to build a great business. Yeah. Yeah. Good.
Kevin Kaspar: Sorry. We put the flag. See? You might have done it if we waited till week 6, so I'm glad you said it.
Kevin Kaspar: Okay, cool. Are we good to transition away from Mentor magic? I think Dominique has a question. Oh.
Kevin Kaspar: it was more question, slash observation comment. Just because I'm really glad you've mentioned this topic, and just to share our experience with with the cohort, I think when we spent around 5 months in the Bay Area, and
Kevin Kaspar: I don't want to make assumptions, but I feel as well because we were like 1st time founders and also international. That was when I look back that was preyed on a lot, and we were told that oh, it's time practicing. Just give me efficacy and everything didn't. But it was yeah. It was very hot, like it was a lot of people hitting it up. So I just wanted to
Kevin Kaspar: say, I'm glad that that's not think of stuff. It was sold to us, and just to friends like, Be mindful of that. But also I just wanted to get your views like a few people have said to us in the Bay Area.
Kevin Kaspar: Oh, we can help you fundraise. But like, if we introduce you to someone like, we'll take a clip from that. We've seen that yeah, no way
Kevin Kaspar: flat.
Kevin Kaspar: Nobody should be soliciting. I feel like these are, these are dollars. You're giving way. You guys have 1 billion dollar companies here
Kevin Kaspar: along those lines. I want to share my experience. And now give a little bit of if you're giving away equity to anybody that you feel can be like key in your company in the ground. Just make sure you put a clip so you like. Give away stock options with a 1 year clip. That's what I did with like one of our advisors. That was like the bridge for me from Italy to the Us.
Kevin Kaspar: He happened to like disappear after 3 or 4 months, that it was here, and that was so bad because I couldn't get a hold of him. And so we decided to terminate, and we didn't get any equity. So just make sure you have a click in your vesting schedule. Same same thing
Kevin Kaspar: so usually like 4 year vesting and one year clip
Kevin Kaspar: awesome. This was a great discussion, guys. I'm really glad that we brought that up at the end. Akkadina I would love if you could make a note to add both of those things about the equity and the solicitation
Kevin Kaspar: cool. So let's stop the recording. And we're gonna go into retreat stuff. That fun.